A further interesting approach that is relevant to
our work is a methodology called ISSS (Incremental Significant
utterance-Sequence Search). It follows the idea of
analysing an input step-by-step without initially knowing
the whole input (Nakano et al., 1999). The authors tried to
recognise the input on a word-by-word basis and built up
a knowledgebase consisting of several possible input variations.
This knowledgebase is actualised for each newly
recognised word. Once an end of the input has been detected
the most appropriate system reaction is selected and
provided to the user.


Nakano et al. (1999) describe a combined
parsing and discourse processing method, where the
user¡¦s utterance can be interpreted each time a word
hypothesis comes in from the speech recognizer. Their
implemented system interprets user input
incrementally in real-time, but does not take the
dialogue context into account.

There have been previous implementations of incremental understanding in multimodal systems. Higashinaka et al. [23],
Miyazaki et al.[29], and Nakano et al. [30] of NTT Laboratories in Japan describe a meeting scheduler that
incrementally accepts sentence fragments in real-time, updating the information stored in the discourse after new information
has been provided.

Although task-oriented dialogue systems have
been actively researched (Hirshman, 1989; Ferguson
et al., 1996; Nakano et al., 1999; Walker
et al., 2002), recently non-task-oriented functions
are starting to attract attention, and systems without
a specific task that deal with more casual dialogues,
such as chats, are being actively investigated
from their social and entertainment aspects
(Bickmore and Cassell, 2001; Higashinaka et al.,
2008; Higuchi et al., 2008).


The incremental parser developped by Nakano et al [Nakano et al., 1999b], uses a
unification-based grammar and combines NLU and discourse processing in an algorithm
called Incremental Significant-Utterance-Sequence Search (ISSS). For each new incoming
word from the ASR, the parser maintains a number of candidate contexts (i.e. parsing stack
18
and beliefs about the user¡¦s intention), each associated with a priority level. Priorities are
heuristically set so as to be higher for ¡¨significant utterances¡¨, i.e. phrases or clauses that
correspond to a fully formed dialog act, and also favor longer constituents (as opposed to
concatenation of shorter ones). This parser is part of the WIT spoken dialog system toolkit
(see below).



Nakano et al. (Nakano et al. (1999)) proposed a method for the incremental understanding of utterances
whose boundaries are not known. The Incremental Sentence Sequence Search (ISSS) algorithm finds
plausible boundaries of utterances, called significant utterances (SUs), which can be a full sentence or a
subsentential phrase, such as a noun phrase or a verb phrase. Any phrase that can change the belief state
is defined as a SU. In this sense an SU corresponds more or less with what we call a ¡¥functional segment¡¦,
which is defined as a minimal stretch of behaviour that has a communicative function (see Bunt et al.
(2010)). ISSS maintains multiple possible belief states, and updates these each time a word hypothesis
is input. The ISSS approach does not deal with the multifunctionality of segments, however, and does
not allow segments to overlap.


With the advances of speech processing technologies
in recent years, it has been tried to develop
systems which understand speech simultaneously
with it (Ehsani et al., 1994; Matsubara et al.,
1999; Nakano et al., 1999).

The problem has been approached using combinations of semantic
and dialogue state information, as in [Bell et al., 2001, Nakano et al., 1999, Skantze
and Edlund, 2004].

Nakano et al. (1999) describe a combined parsing and discourse processing method, where the user¡¦s utterance can be interpreted each time a word hypothesis comes in from the speech recognizer. Their system interprets user input incrementally in real-time, but does not take the dialogue context into account.

Nakano et al. (1999) proposed a method that holds
multiple dialogue states ordered by priority to deal
with the problem that some utterances convey meaning
over several speech intervals and that the understanding
result cannot be determined at each interval
end.

Nakano
et al. (1999) proposed a method for incrementally
understanding user utterances whose semantic
boundaries were unknown. The method operated
by incrementally finding plausible sequences of
utterances that play crucial roles in the task execution
of dialogues, and by utilizing beam search to
deal with the ambiguity of boundaries and with
syntactic and semantic ambiguities. Though the
method does not require utterance segmentation
before discourse processing, it employs special
rule tables for discontinuation of significant utterance
boundaries. Such rule tables are not easy to
maintain, and experimental results have demonstrated
only that the method outperformed the
method assuming pauses to be semantic boundaries.

WIT features
an incremental understanding method (Nakano et
al., 1999b) that makes it possible to build a robust
and real-time system.


More and more people are building dia-
logue systems. Architecturally, these sys-
tems tend to fall into two camps: those with
pipelined architectures (e.g., (Lamel et al.,
1998; Nakano et al., 1999)), and those with
agent-based architectures (e.g., (SeneR et al.,
1999; Stent et al., 1999; Rudnicky et al.,
1999)).

In the real-time interactive speech system, for example,
which should generate the word of agreement or interruption
during the utterance of the user with an adequate
timing [8, 19],


We have been studying this problem
and have developed a system that takes turns based on understanding
results as well as pauses [1]. The turn-taking strategy of this
system, however, was devised based on the developer¡¦s intuition,
not on a corpus-based study

It is based on concurrent processing and utilizes an incremental
utterance understanding method [10] and an
incremental utterance generation method [5, 6].

To do this, the system needs to perform
incremental understanding and generation with more
flexible turn-taking or mixed-initiative interactions [4],[5].


[9] present an extension to a
method for incremental NLU [10] to use n-best lists and show
some improvement (8.49%);

The work of [108] explored incremental parses to determine the appropriate
dialog act segmentation, but no prosodic cues were included. A

Such a metric is especially needed for a system using ISSS (Incremental
Sentence Sequence Search) [1], which we introduced.



Note : how to deal with this kind of input

The incremental parser developped by Nakano et al [Nakano et al., 1999b], uses a
unification-based grammar and combines NLU and discourse processing in an algorithm
called Incremental Significant-Utterance-Sequence Search (ISSS). For each new incoming
word from the ASR, the parser maintains a number of candidate contexts (i.e. parsing stack
18
and beliefs about the user¡¦s intention), each associated with a priority level. Priorities are
heuristically set so as to be higher for ¡¨significant utterances¡¨, i.e. phrases or clauses that
correspond to a fully formed dialog act, and also favor longer constituents (as opposed to
concatenation of shorter ones). This parser is part of the WIT spoken dialog system toolkit
(see below).